# Data cleaning scripts
This folder contains scripts for preparing the expression data sets from raw data downloaded directly from the respective sources. The scripts are organized as follows:

- `Saunders_data_cleaning.R` Script for cleaning the [raw data](http://dropviz.org/) from Saunders et al. (2018) and preparing the expression data for the analysis. All cells that are labelled as singleton, doublet, outliers are filtered. The subcluster annotated is mannually curated based on the original names to remove typos and inconsistencies, which is used for the fine_cluster grabularity. The cluster labels are extract from the supplementary file of the original paper. The neuron subclass labels are annotated based on the primary neurotransmitter type.

- `Tabula_muris_data_cleaning.R` Script for cleaning the [raw data](https://figshare.com/projects/Tabula_Muris_Transcriptomic_characterization_of_20_organs_and_tissues_from_Mus_musculus_at_single_cell_resolution/27733) from Tabula Muris Consortium (2018) and preparing the expression data for the analysis. The data is downloaded from the figshare repository and the expression data is extracted from the Seurat object.

- `Tabula_sapiens_data_cleaning.R` Script for cleaning the [raw data](https://figshare.com/projects/Tabula_Sapiens/100973) from Tabula Sapiens Consortium (2022). The original cell metadata do not contain information about the cell ontology id but only the cell ontology class. To map the cell ontology class to the cell ontology id, ensuring the cell types are precisely annotated, we reversely annotate the cell ontology id using [the whole cell ontology mapping file](https://obofoundry.org/ontology/cl.html) (with `Tabula_sapiens_ontology_cleaning.py`). The cell ontology class without exact mapping id or 